# React Lecture
* Whenever a event is triggered, the event object is being passed
* State causes bug
* passing functions allow you to pass behaviours around and use them later
* useEffect runs side effect after react component has rendered
* useEffect with [] in dependency list means never run the side effect again after the initial render

# 3 Parts of Use Effect
1) Side effect behaviour
2) Dependencies list (only run side effect if something in the dependencies list changes)
3) Clean up
   * Timers, event listeners and socket connections are examples of side effects that require cleanup.

# Side Effect
* API calls, updates to the DOM, and event listeners
* The React Hook API provides a method called `useEffect` to help us manage these.
* We can manage side effects within component function calls with useEffect
* When we make requests to an API server it is considered a side effect of rendering a component

# Use Effect Sequence
1) React
   * Run all component functions to generate React Element tree
   * Store effect functinos for after paint
   * Apply changes to the DOM
2) Browser
   * Paint the required element based on current DOM
3) React
   * Run all effect functions submitted during render

# Rules of Hooks
1) Don't call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions (You can't put useState call in a condition either)
2) Only call Hooks from inside React components (You could also call Hooks within custom Hooks)
3) The effect method that we pass to useEffect must either return undefined or a function
   * The function will be used for side effect clean up
   * The easiest way to avoid issues with this rule is always to declare your effect as a multiline function.

# Dependencies
* We can tell React to skip applying an effect if certain values haven't changed between re-renders. To do so, we pass an array as an optional second argument to useEffect.
* Effects are usually dependent on state and props, and that we must declare those dependencies in the list

``` js
useEffect(() => {
  if(results.length > 0) {
    console.log("Results Set");
  }
}, [results]); // Only re-run the effect if results changes
```

# Requests
* The pattern for data fetching follows the same steps
1) The component has no results when React renders it the first time.
2) The component makes an asynchronous request to the API server.
3) The data for the component is returned in the response.
4) The component can now be updated with the data using an action that sets the state.

```js
function LiveSearch(props) {
  const [term, setTerm] = useState("");
  const [results, setResults] = useState([]);

  useEffect(() => {
    fetch(`/search?term=${term}`).then(setResults);
  }, [term]);

  return (
    <>
      <SearchBar value={term} onChange={setTerm} />
      <Results results={results} />
    </>
  );
}
```

* The request depends on the value of term so we have declared it as a dependency to run the effect
* When we call setResults it will update the component and render with the latest result

# Side effects API for class-baseed components
1) Make initial request in the componentDidMount
2) componentDidUpdate is called when component updates
3) Within componentDidUpdate, we would check if the term has changed, if it has, then we would make the API request

# Making request and Components
* When we want to fetch new data and store it in an app, we use state
* There is often a need to compute new data from existing state in an application. To do this we can use a selector, a function that accepts state as an argument and returns data that is derived from that state.
